My website repository: https://github.com/drucee/drucee.github.io.git

You can create a new GitHub repository by navigating to https://github.com/new in your browser. Enter a unique repository name and add a README and the appropriate license (MIT License is the most permissive). Click the "create repository" button. When you are in your repository in GitHub, copy the repository's URL (the text after the boldface "HTTPS" or "SSH"). Navigate in the command line to the directory where you want to store the local files that will go into the repository and enter git clone <PASTE URL HERE>. Enter your username and password if prompted. Then run the command ls in the command line to check if the repository was cloned.

Open source is a philosophy that states that the source code (the machine-readable code) of software should be made available and editable to the public, rather than just the human-readable parts of the software. Copyright is automatically applied to creative works (including computer code) in the US, and open source is a way to get around that. I find open source to be a very helpful idea for the developer community. First and foremost, it allows other developers to help out when a developer is stuck while writing code. With open-source software, users can also use their own experimentation with code to engage in a sort of dialogue with the developer, persuading them to add or tweak features. Finally, open source allows developers to code together, making "social coding" applications like GitHub, where developers from all over the world can share code, possible. Open source seems like a utopian ideal (free information!) but its widespread acceptance in the developer community suggests that it can actually be broadly applied in the "real world."

Licenses are important because they allow a developer to set limitations on how their code can be used. They allow the developer to control copyleft (what happens to derivatives from the original work?), commercial exploitation (can others make money from derivative works?), and reciprocity (must creators of derivative works share improvements?). Even within the framework of open source, there are several different license regimes as relates to these limitations, the most permissive of which is the MIT license, which allows for a work to be freely modified and exploited as long as the work contains within it the license statement.

This assignment helped me solidify the git skills that I learned in assignments 1.4 and 1.5. After having completed this assignment, I have found that in a few short hours, the process of adding, committing, and making a pull request, which seemed confusing and clunky before, now feels like second nature.

The wikipedia entry for open source (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source) was helpful for me in refining my definition of open source and understanding applications of the open source framework beyond computer code.